#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass docbook
\language swedish
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Ember
\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Standard

This is the Ember client for the Worldforge project.
\layout Standard

Ember is a fully functional 3d client for both Cyphesis and Indri servers.
 It's goal is to be used with all worlds created withing the Worldforge
 project.
\layout Section

Quickstart
\layout Standard

In the upper part of the window is the console.
 It has two modes, full or small.
 In small mode, which is the default, only the input strip is shown.
 I full mode the console occupies half of the screen.
 Use F12 to switch console modes.
 Some commands which can be entered in the console:
\layout Itemize

/connect <server>
\newline 
Tries to connect to the server.
\layout Itemize

/login <name> <password>
\newline 
Tries to log in with the name and password.
\layout Itemize

/create <name> <password>
\newline 
Creates a new account on the server.
\layout Itemize

/add <name> <gender> <type> <description>
\newline 
Adds a new Avatar to the server.
 As of now (2005-01-27) cyphesis doesn't support that many different types
 of Avatars, go with 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

settler
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
\newline 
Some examples:
\newline 
/add Erik male settler Soon on top of the world.
\newline 
/add Eeva female settler Likes swines.
\layout Itemize

/quit
\layout Standard

The first view you'll get is the server browser.
 Press "refresh" to get it all the registered servers from the meta server.
 Select a server and click on 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

connect
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 to connect to it.
 You can also enter an address in the text box if you don't find your server
 in the server list.
\layout Standard

Once connected you'll have to either log in using an existing account or
 create a new.
 For now there's no GUI for account creation, you'll have to use the console.
\layout Standard

After successful account creation or log in, you will have to either choose
 an existing avatar or create a new.
 As with the account creation you'll have to use the console for avatar
 creation.
\layout Subsection

Moving around in the world
\layout Standard

Once in the world you'll be presented to a third person view of your avatar.
 The default mode is GUI mode.
 Press the right mouse button to switch to movement mode.
 When in movement mode, the mouse is used to pan around the world.
 The avatar will change direction to face the camera.
 Use the keys w,a,s,d to move around the world.
 Pressing shift will make the avatar run.
\layout Standard

When in gui mode, the gui behaves pretty much like a standard gui.
 Double click on window headers to make them roll up and down.
 As of now (2005-01-22) there's no mechanism to hide windows, though this
 will probably make it into a future version.
\layout Standard

Click on an entity in the world (a tree, a NPC) to show the mouse picker
 menu.
 Most options here are pretty self explanatory.
 Some things needs to be said about 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

use
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 though.
\layout Subsubsection

Wielding and using stuff
\layout Standard

The support for wielding and using stuff is supported by cyphesis but is
 not finalized.
 Thus, this will change in the future.
 However, this is how it works right now.
 You can wield something which is your inventory.
 This can be used on entities in the world by clicking on them and choosing
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

use
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 from the menu.
\layout Standard

One thing that can be done is wielding an axe and use it to chop down trees.
 There are not that many axes in the world, but you can use the entity creator
 to create some.
 
\layout Standard

You can also use a cleaver to chop meat from pigs.
\layout Subsubsection

Talking to people
\layout Standard

Use the console to talk to people in the world, just enter some text and
 press enter.
 (Note that all console commands are prefixed by 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

/
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

, such as 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

/quit
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.) When someone else in the world says something, it will be shown through
 the use of a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

talk bubble
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 to the left of the person.
 Some NPC have a series of suggested responses.
 These will be shown to the left of the NPC.
 You can let your avatar say one of these by clicking on them.
\layout Section

Developing
\layout Standard

The main design philosophy behind Ember is to as much as possible use 3d
 party libraries.
 We strive to remove as much uneccessary code from Ember as possible, if
 there's equivalent functionality to be found in an existing library.
 This prevents us from a Not-Invented-Here mindset and makes it easier to
 kill our darlings.
\layout Itemize

It uses Ogre (http://www.ogre3d.org) to present the world in full 3d.
 Ogre is very much hardwired into the core of Ember.
 
\layout Itemize

SDL is used for input handling.
 This is not that hard wired as Ogre, but since the goal of SDL is to provide
 a platform agnostic library there's perhaps no big reason to provide support
 for a different input library.
 We will hade to do some research into DirectInput though.
 
\layout Itemize

SigC++ is used for signals and events.
 This is also very much hardwired into Ember.
\layout Standard

Other notable libraries used: 
\layout Itemize

CEGUI (http://www.cegui.org.uk) is used for the gui.
 This can be removed from Ember, and another library can be used.
 Note however that all current widgets are made for CEGUI only, ie.
 we don't try to provide a generic widget abstraction.
 It seems unlikely that such a construct would work.
 For reference, see any discussion on Java's AWT, Swing and SWT.
 
\layout Itemize

OpenAL (http://www.openal.org/) is used for the sound.
 This should be loosely decoupled from Ember, but much like SDL OpenAL is
 geared towards providing platform agnostic sound support.
 Then again, FMOD might be interesting.
 
\layout Itemize

XercesC (http://xml.apache.org/xerces-c/) is used for xml handling.
 This i a rather cumberstone library, but since CEGUI already uses it there's
 no problem including it.
 Should CEGUI move to another lib there should however be no big problems
 with moving to another lib.
 Requires some recoding though.
\layout Standard

See the doc directory and http://www.worldforge.org/dev/eng/clients/ember/
 for more information.
\the_end
